README.md, before:

# File2List2Br

Automates high distinctions for large files.

* file2list.pl - generates files that are lists of breasonings (words that earn high distinctions) from files
* list2br.pl - converts a list of words to breasonings
- shows last 10 assignments with breasoning count
- asks if the user wants 128k breasonings (4000 breasonings or 50 As * 80 breasonings, * 4 for 100%, * 2 for student and to do lecturer's work, * 2 for University and an industry seen-as version * 2 for the student and their friend) or another value for an assignment
- seamlessly tries next list, warning if past end of database, and giving error if database has been finished

# Getting Started

Please read the following instructions on how to install the project on your computer for automating high distinctions for large files.

# Prerequisites

* Please download and install SWI-Prolog for your machine at `https://www.swi-prolog.org/build/`.

# 1. Install manually

Download <a href="http://github.com/luciangreen/File2List2Br/">this repository</a>, the <a href="https://github.com/luciangreen/listprologinterpreter">List Prolog Interpreter Repository</a> and the <a href="https://github.com/luciangreen/Text-to-Breasonings">Text to Breasonings Repository</a>.

# 2. Or Install from List Prolog Package Manager (LPPM)

* Download the <a href="https://github.com/luciangreen/List-Prolog-Package-Manager">LPPM Repository</a>:

```
mkdir GitHub
cd GitHub/
git clone https://github.com/luciangreen/List-Prolog-Package-Manager.git
cd List-Prolog-Package-Manager
swipl
['lppm'].
lppm_install("luciangreen","File2List2Br").
../
halt.
```

# Running

* Download the repositories above and save them in a single folder.
* Save a large file in Terminal as a text file.
* Split the file `split -b 4000000 file.txt`.
* Load `file2list1` by entering `['file2list.pl'].` and run with the command e.g. `file2list1(["fileout_txt.aa","fileout_txt.ab"]).` where the file names are the split files from the previous step.  Don't close the window.
* In `list_db.txt`, enter the file names of the files generated by `file2list1` and their breasoning counts output from `file2list1`, e.g.
```
[["t-tmp.txt",12],["a-tmp.txt",2]]
```
* NB. You can use BBEdit to delete parts of the output and replace with `\t (tab)` so that the breasoning count can be separated from the unique breasonings in Excel, and then use replacements in BBEdit to format the list.  You can use `reverse(Input,Output).` in swipl to reverse lists.  Be careful that the filenames correspond to the correct breasoning count.
* In Shell:
`cd File2List2Br`
`swipl`
`['../Text-to-Breasonings/text_to_breasonings.pl'].`
* Load `list2br.pl` by entering `['list2br.pl'].` and run with the command `list2br.`.
```
Number of breasoning databases: 2
Number of previous assignments: 1
10 Previous Assignments and Breasoning Counts
[Comment,0]
0 of 14 breasonings (0%) used.
Enter the subject and assignment number: 
```
* Enter the university or school subject and the info about the assignment.
```
Enter <Return> for 128k breasonings in this assignment, or the number of breasonings:
```
* Press `Return` for 128000 breasonings, assuming there are enough in the database (if you would like to given the reasons above) or enter another value.
```
Number of words in dictionary: 11746
Number of unique breasonings in dictionary: 662
Number of words to breason out in file: 1
Number of unique words in file: 1
Number of unique breathsonings in dictionary: 364
true.
```
* You will be asked to breason out new words.
* You can delete this info in the `assignment_db.txt` database later to e.g. redo or increase the breasoning number and redo.

# Caution:

follow instructions in <a href="https://github.com/luciangreen/Text-to-Breasonings/blob/master/Instructions_for_Using_texttobr(2).pl.txt">Instructions for Using texttobr(2)</a> when using texttobr, texttobr2 or mind reader to avoid medical problems.

# Authors

Lucian Green - Initial programmer - <a href="https://www.lucianacademy.com/">Lucian Academy</a>

# License

I licensed this project under the BSD3 License - see the <a href="LICENSE">LICENSE.md</a> file for details

Commit message:

Readme to install and run swipl

README.md, after:

# File2List2Br

Automates high distinctions for large files.

* file2list.pl - generates files that are lists of breasonings (words that earn high distinctions) from files
* list2br.pl - converts a list of words to breasonings
- shows last 10 assignments with breasoning count
- asks if the user wants 128k breasonings (4000 breasonings or 50 As * 80 breasonings, * 4 for 100%, * 2 for student and to do lecturer's work, * 2 for University and an industry seen-as version * 2 for the student and their friend) or another value for an assignment
- seamlessly tries next list, warning if past end of database, and giving error if database has been finished

# Getting Started

Please read the following instructions on how to install the project on your computer for automating high distinctions for large files.

# Prerequisites

* Use a search engine to find the Homebrew (or other) Terminal install command for your platform and install it, and search for the Terminal command to install swipl using Homebrew and install it or download and install SWI-Prolog for your machine at <a href="https://www.swi-prolog.org/build/">SWI-Prolog</a>.

# Mac, Linux and Windows (with Linux commands installed): Prepare to run swipl

* In Terminal settings (Mac), make Bash the default shell:

```
/bin/bash
```

* In Terminal, edit the text file `~/.bashrc` using the text editor Nano:

```
nano ~/.bashrc
```

* Add the following to the file `~/.bashrc`:

```
export PATH="$PATH:/opt/homebrew/bin/"
```

* Link to swipl in Terminal:

```
sudo ln -s /opt/homebrew/bin/swipl /usr/local/bin/swipl
```

# 1. Install manually

Download <a href="http://github.com/luciangreen/File2List2Br/">this repository</a>, the <a href="https://github.com/luciangreen/listprologinterpreter">List Prolog Interpreter Repository</a> and the <a href="https://github.com/luciangreen/Text-to-Breasonings">Text to Breasonings Repository</a>.

# 2. Or Install from List Prolog Package Manager (LPPM)

* Download the <a href="https://github.com/luciangreen/List-Prolog-Package-Manager">LPPM Repository</a>:

```
mkdir GitHub
cd GitHub/
git clone https://github.com/luciangreen/List-Prolog-Package-Manager.git
cd List-Prolog-Package-Manager
swipl
['lppm'].
lppm_install("luciangreen","File2List2Br").
../
halt.
```

# Running

* Download the repositories above and save them in a single folder.
* Save a large file in Terminal as a text file.
* Split the file `split -b 4000000 file.txt`.
* Load `file2list1` by entering `['file2list.pl'].` and run with the command e.g. `file2list1(["fileout_txt.aa","fileout_txt.ab"]).` where the file names are the split files from the previous step.  Don't close the window.
* In `list_db.txt`, enter the file names of the files generated by `file2list1` and their breasoning counts output from `file2list1`, e.g.
```
[["t-tmp.txt",12],["a-tmp.txt",2]]
```
* NB. You can use BBEdit to delete parts of the output and replace with `\t (tab)` so that the breasoning count can be separated from the unique breasonings in Excel, and then use replacements in BBEdit to format the list.  You can use `reverse(Input,Output).` in swipl to reverse lists.  Be careful that the filenames correspond to the correct breasoning count.
* In Shell:
`cd File2List2Br`
`swipl`
`['../Text-to-Breasonings/text_to_breasonings.pl'].`
* Load `list2br.pl` by entering `['list2br.pl'].` and run with the command `list2br.`.
```
Number of breasoning databases: 2
Number of previous assignments: 1
10 Previous Assignments and Breasoning Counts
[Comment,0]
0 of 14 breasonings (0%) used.
Enter the subject and assignment number: 
```
* Enter the university or school subject and the info about the assignment.
```
Enter <Return> for 128k breasonings in this assignment, or the number of breasonings:
```
* Press `Return` for 128000 breasonings, assuming there are enough in the database (if you would like to given the reasons above) or enter another value.
```
Number of words in dictionary: 11746
Number of unique breasonings in dictionary: 662
Number of words to breason out in file: 1
Number of unique words in file: 1
Number of unique breathsonings in dictionary: 364
true.
```
* You will be asked to breason out new words.
* You can delete this info in the `assignment_db.txt` database later to e.g. redo or increase the breasoning number and redo.

# Caution:

follow instructions in <a href="https://github.com/luciangreen/Text-to-Breasonings/blob/master/Instructions_for_Using_texttobr(2).pl.txt">Instructions for Using texttobr(2)</a> when using texttobr, texttobr2 or mind reader to avoid medical problems.

# Authors

Lucian Green - Initial programmer - <a href="https://www.lucianacademy.com/">Lucian Academy</a>

# License

I licensed this project under the BSD3 License - see the <a href="LICENSE">LICENSE.md</a> file for details
